My HistFitter survey results:Zach:- "official" script in that draws several observed lines for comparing limits in different scenarios (different channels, different fit setups, etc).- It would be nice to have a few examples where - out of the box - the fit actually does *not* converge, and the task is to "fix" the fit.  I find that a very practical and useful exercise.- Have an "upgrade" to spot some fit failures and throw them out at the listfile-making stage- Better support …- Discovery p-value scripts are critical, as are N_BSM upper limit scripts.  I got those from the zero-lepton guys, so they should put theirs into SVN.- Some recommendations would be handy, on topics like:o) Make sure to look at the following plots before you think your fit is ok (e.g. control regions and signal regions before and after)o) What is the appropriate amount of profiling?o) What is a reasonable number of fit failures when running on a large signal grid?o) What is an acceptable amount of limit "smoothing"?o) How best should one go from a single-bin signal region to a "loose" fit signal region?Iacopo:- The tracing of the features (and bugs) of different HistFitter versions is non-existing. Need better tracing of different HistFitter versions and corresponding features and bugs.- Proper versioning announcements and history.- Useful to have documentation / examples on combination- The mailing list is often helpful. Being on a voluntary base, the feedback is sometimes slow.- It would be useful to have a FAQ page. The most obvious fit problems may be described there.Sophie & Marcello:- Documentation on systematics should be extended. Which systematic should be used where?- Deal with absolute errors in case of nominal prediction with 0.0 events. Empty nominal, non-empty systematic- it would be very helpful to have documentation how to solve the bad fit problems.Sigve:- Addition of several scripts:o) Scripts for conversion of ascii to histograms (input formats vary so several of these) o) Scripts feeding RooStats.get_Pvalue(w,doUL,ntoys,ctype,ttype) with workspaceso) Scripts submitting to clusters for toys and merging toys (should be in package)o) Scripts for Poor Woman Combination (best expectation approach, should be in package)o) Scripts for plotting (very channel/model dependent, one example in package enough)o) … Many other scripts being person dependent- The documentation of the systematic treatment, in particular for shape fits, is poor.MC Stat systematic is not documented.- A summary about failed fits would be very nice.- Maybe some "standard" results for xml cross checks would be good.- Fix for toy crashes- Blackbox feeling: we doubt that HistFitter is a tool that can be used as a black box by one person/student. It should be used in an environment of expertise. Jeanette:- Profiling is an issue: what is recommendable level?Antoine:- Addition: implemented in configManager.py: the possibility to calculate the uncertainty with respect to a specific "nom" weight instead of the nominal configMgr.weights in the function.- Extra documentation for available scripts (table making, yields, systematics, ULs, p0-value).- Concrete and working example of all macros which are available to make the tables (yields and systematics), the upper limits, to plot a contour, to submit and merge the toys etc...- We should have recommandations for choosing the type of systematics. Xavier:- documentation on ORring- Suggested scripts:o) script to fill my histograms from a .txt file. Reason: specific of my case (probably others built similar ones).o) script to run the different steps one after the other. Reason: simplify my life.o) script to extract the values of the fit: when fitting a control region with signal contamination I had to extract the fit result per point. This is currently not possible unless you know how to navigate inside Roostat. I had to develop a pedestrian workaround due to time pressure because I asked around but nobody seemed to have it at that point (basically I read info from logfile).o) script to perform the OR-ing between signal regions, basing the decision on the nominal signal theory value. Reason: not available.o) script to prepare the upper limit values (retrieve CLs values and put them in the plot). Reason: not available.o) script to convert the upper limit value into signal (involves reading from the x-section file). Reason: not available.- Clean up the HistFitter code- Documentation tips:- Data is above expectation: how can I calculate the p-value of the excess?- What are the steps for the whole chain (from inputs to exclusion plots)?- How to prepare different types of fits (single bin, multiple bins...)?- How do I extract the parameters of the fits?- How to combine different best expected regions (overlapping)?- How to combine different regions mutually exclusive?- How to produce exclusion plots?- How to produce upper limit plots?- What to do if a point does not converge?- How to make sure I am not profiling?- What are the steps to follow when performing a fit with signal and control regions?- How to validate the fit?- How to obtain the model independent upper limit values?- How to retrieve values from the fit- How to interpret the fit results and make sure there is no profiling- How to handle points that do not converge- Where the final results are actually stored (the text file where the CLs values, masses and variations are stored). The format of this file is clear once you know it but it is not easy to find how this was done and how the program handles it.- How to perform the final plots (there is a sort of complicated chain of scripts before one can produce the curves)- How to perform the OR-ing between signal regions correctly and also how to deal with the up/down variations- What kind of checks one can do in order to get confidence in that things are under control- key points of the type of information one can get from the logfile (and types of checks) are listed somewhere (e.g. like a checklist). - what type of systematic to choose?- level of profiling?- How to identify fit failures: either reading the log file or finding strange behaviour in the output curves. Better access to fit outputs would be desirable.- A list of hints of things to check might be useful. In my case, I had some crazy uncertainties in one particular signal point but it took me a while to actually find the reason.- It is good but probably the group of real experts is too small compared to the size of the group. Given the difficulty in increasing the number of people, I propose to invest more in documentation and tutorial from a better practical point of view.- As a general comment, I think that HistFitter is not something that one can use at the end of the analysis but something that have to be exercised since the beginning. The work to be done cannot be underestimated. Apart from this, I think that now that things are more stable, it is already the time to work on two aspects:1) Clean up the HistFitter version: currently there are quite some things scattered (e.g. inside analysis) and some scripts around but not in a fixed place. Also, the chain of scripts to produce the final plots could be simplified and better organised such that people could directly use them. A cleanup of the HistFitter code itself would also be good (Max and one student are already working on it so it is good!)2) The documentation/Tutorial could be a bit more practical-oriented. At the end, we all do pretty similar things (calculate limits, combine, p-values, different types of fits, or-ing of signal regions, upper limit plots...) so it would be much better to have simple examples on each of the cases. For example, there could be a sort of FAQ page with the explanation or the reference to a particular script to solve the problems that most of the people might have. I put a list below of what I can think it is common (it could also be grouped in categories: fit, plots, interpretation... but I have not done it here below). Actually, most of these questions I had to ask somebody and now some people is also asking me (and I assume this is also the case with other people of course!) so having common answers as reference would be useful:pMaria:- The meaning of all different options in the python configuration file (although most answers could be found on the mailing list).- Examples: how to do an histogram based analysis. Ilaria:- NO DOCUMENTATION OF THE PYTHON CODE ITSELF.- STATISTICAL ERROR ON a *SINGLE* BACKGROUND COMPONENTSLarry:- There should probably be more detailed support for histogram-based usage.- Profiling recommendations, when to apply to high-stats analysis?Nikola:- IT WOULD NICE (BUT NOT MANDATORY) TO HAVE A TOOL THAT TRANSLATE THE HISTOGRAMS TO A TEXT FILE TO CHECK QUICKLY THE INPUT TO A FIT.